## HashMap:
1. It stores elements in key-value pairs, where, Keys are unique. and Values can be duplicated.
2. Internally uses Hashing, hence allows efficient key-based retrieval, insertion, and removal with an average of O(1) time.
3. Insertion order is not preserved in HashMap. To preserve the insertion order, LinkedHashMap is used and to maintain sorted order, TreeMap is used.
4. HashMap is not thread-safe
5. HashMap allows one null key and multiple null values. If a null key is added multiple times, it overwrites the previous value.

## Capacity of HashMap:
**1. Default capacity:** Default capacity of hashmap is 16.
**2. Load factor: 0.75 (default):** when 75% of the capacity is filled, the capacity is doubled.
```java
new capacity=old capacity×2
```

---

## Constructors of HashMap:

**1. HashMap()**
It is the default constructor which creates an instance of HashMap with an initial capacity of 16 and a load factor of 0.75.
```java
HashMap<K, V> hm = new HashMap<K, V>();
```

**2. HashMap(int initialCapacity)**
It creates a HashMap instance with a specified initial capacity and load factor of 0.75.
```java
HashMap<K, V> hm = new HashMap<K, V>(20);
```

**3. HashMap(int initialCapacity, float loadFactor)**
It creates a HashMap instance with a specified initial capacity and specified load factor.
```java
HashMap<K, V> hm = new HashMap<K, V>(20, 0.50f);
```

**4. HashMap(Map map)**
It creates an instance of HashMap with the same mappings as the specified map.
```java
Map<Integer, String> map = new HashMap<>();
HashMap<Integer, String> hm = new HashMap<>(map);
```

---

## Time and Space Complexity
1. HashMap provides constant time complexity for basic operations.
2. In the worst case, HashMap operations can take O(N) time due to hash collisions.

| Operation                          | Time Complexity | Space Complexity |
|-----------------------------------|-----------------|------------------|
| Adding elements in HashMap        | O(1)            | O(1) (extra)     |
| Removing elements from HashMap    | O(1)            | O(1) (extra)     |
| Extracting elements from HashMap  | O(1)            | O(1) (extra)     |
