## ArrayList:
ArrayList is a java class that implements List interface. ArrayList is a resizable array. Unlike normal arrays, its size can grow or shrink dynamically as elements are added or removed.

1. Elements can be accessed using their indices, similar to arrays.
2. Duplicates are allowed.
3. Elements are stored in the order they are inserted.
4. ArrayList is not thread-safe. To make it thread-safe, we must wrap it manually using Collections.synchronizedList().

```java
import java.util.ArrayList;

class Main {
    public static void main (String[] args) {

      	// Creating an ArrayList
      	ArrayList<Integer> a = new ArrayList<>();

      	// Adding Element in ArrayList
      	a.add(1);
      	a.add(2);
      	a.add(3);

      	// Printing ArrayList
      	System.out.println(a);
    }
}
// Output:
// [1, 2, 3]
```

## ArrayList Constructors:
**1. ArrayList():**
Creates an empty ArrayList with default initial capacity.
```java
ArrayList<Integer> arr = new ArrayList<>();
```

**2. ArrayList(Collection<? extends E> c)**
Creates an ArrayList initialized with elements from the specified collection.
```java
ArrayList<String> arr = new ArrayList<>(collection);
```

**3. ArrayList(int initialCapacity)**
This constructor is used to build an array list with the initial capacity being specified.
```java
ArrayList<Double> arr = new ArrayList<>(20);
```

## Internal Implementation:
**Dynamic Array Structure:** An ArrayList is internally implemented using a dynamic array (usually an Object[] array). This array stores all the elements of the list.
**Automatic Resizing:** When the internal array becomes full, the ArrayList automatically increases its capacity by creating a new larger array and copying the existing elements into it.
**Index-Based Access:** Elements are stored in contiguous memory locations, allowing fast access using indexes (e.g., get(index)), typically in O(1) time complexity.
**Element Shifting on Insert/Delete:** When an element is added or removed at a specific index, the elements after that position are shifted to maintain order.
**Default Capacity:** When an ArrayList is created using the default constructor, its default capacity is 10.
**New Capacity Calculation:**
The new capacity is calculated using the formula:
New Capacity = Old Capacity + (Old Capacity / 2)
This increases the capacity by 50% of the old capacity.
**Capacity vs Size Management**
ArrayList maintains two values:
**Size:** number of elements currently stored
**Capacity:** total length of the internal array that can hold elements before resizing is required.

```java
List<Integer> kk = new ArrayList<>(10);
```

In the above case,
size is 0
capacity is 10

When we added all 10 elements and trying to add 11th element, then the new capacity will be calculated.
Then the new capacity will be 15.

---
## Complexity of  ArrayList

| Operation | Time Complexity | Space Complexity |
|---|---|---|
| Inserting Element in ArrayList at the end | O(1) (amortized) | O(1) |
| Inserting Element at specific index | O(N) | O(1) |
| Removing an element | O(N) | O(1) |
| Replacing Elements (`set`) | O(1) | O(1) |
| Traversing elements | O(N) | O(1) |